I am Otto Eduard Leopold von Bismarck, born in
Schonhausen, northwest of Berlin, Germany in 1815.
I transferred a collection of small
German states into the German empire,
and I am its first chancellor.
I am from an aristocratic family and so
was my education at the University of Gottingen.
I entered the Prussian civil service but later
decided to help managing family affairs until
1847. That year I began my political career in the
Prussian legislature, where I gained a reputation
as an ultra-conservative royalist. In 1851,
King Frederick Wilhelm appointed me as Prussian
representative to the German confederation.
I then served as ambassador to Russia and France.
In 1862, I returned to Prussia and was appointed
prime minister by the new king, Wilhelm I.
I was now determined to unite the German
states into a single empire, with Prussia at
its core. With Austrian support, I used the
expanded Prussian army to capture the provinces
of Schleswig and Holstein from Denmark. I then
escalated a quarrel with Austria and its German
allies over the administration of these provinces
into a war, in which Prussia was the victor.
The southern German states joined with the newly
formed north German confederation
after hostilities with France.
The German victory in the Franco-Prussian War won
over the southern German states, and in 1871 they
agreed to join a German empire. Emperor Wilhelm
assigned me as 'chancellor' of the new Germany,
I concentrated on building a powerful state
with a unified national identity. I worked to
prevent the spread of socialism, partly by
introducing health insurance and pensions.
Abroad, I aimed to empower the
German empire in Europe. In 1879,
I negotiated an alliance with Austria-Hungary
and Italy to counteract France and Russia.
I formed numerous global agreements to
stabilize German international affairs.
In 1890, I retired to my estate near Hamburg and
died there in 1898. A great man is known by three
signs. generosity in the design, humanity
in the execution, moderation in success.
I hope I have forged a great German nation
that blooms in justice and prosperity.